add more appium 2 docs (#17692)
appium/appium: packages/appium/docs/en/guides/managing-exts.md

title: Managing Appium Drivers and Plugins
---

To do anything useful with Appium, you need to have at least one [Driver](../intro/drivers.md)

> installed, otherwise Appium won't know how to automate anything. And there is a whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installed, otherwise Appium won't know how to automate anything. There is an entire
```

> [Ecosystem](../ecosystem/index.md) of drivers and plugins out there which enable you to get your
> job done with Appium. This guide helps explain how to manage these drivers and plugins. There are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Ecosystem](../ecosystem/index.md) of drivers and plugins out there! 

This guide helps explain how to manage these drivers and plugins. There are
```

two basic strategies: using Appium's extension CLI interface, or managing extensions yourself in an

> NPM-based project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm-based project.

> Note: Alternative package managers are not supported by Appium at the time of this writing.
```

## Using Appium's Extension CLI

With Appium's [Extension CLI](../cli/extensions.md), you let Appium manage drivers and plugins for

> you, and simply use CLI commands to tell Appium which extensions you would like to install, update,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you.  You will use CLI commands to tell Appium which extensions you would like to install, update,
```

Reviewer: point of view can be second-person here as long as we're consistent, though I'd prefer it to be third-person across the board

or remove. Here's an example of how you might install a driver using the CLI:

```bash
appium driver install xcuitest
```

> This simple command will install the latest version of the [XCUITest
> Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver). The Extension CLI comes with a variety

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will install the latest version of the [XCUITest Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver). The Extension CLI comes with a variety
```

Reviewer: 1. weasel word
2. I don't think you can have a linebreak in a markdown link

Author: fair enough on weasel word, but yes you can have a linebreak in a link, i do it all the time

of commands and parameters; see the documentation for that command for all the specifics.

> The all-important question when Appium is managing your extensions for you is: where do they live?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The all-important question when Appium is managing your extensions for you is: where are they installed?
```

Appium manages extensions in a directory specified by the `APPIUM_HOME` environment variable. You
can set that variable to anything you like, and Appium will manage its extensions there. You can
therefore also use the `APPIUM_HOME` environment variable to manage different sets of extensions,
for example if you want to have the same driver installed at conflicting versions:

```bash
APPIUM_HOME=/path/to/home1 appium driver install xcuitest@4.11.1

> APPIUM_HOME=/path/to/home2 appium driver install xcuitest@beta

Reviewer 2: Actually xcuitest does not have `beta` channel, so probably the `beta` can be another version such as `4.12.1`. Maybe such different versions should be enough as this context

Author: yeah ok, i guess it should be a legitimate version

```

Running these commands will result in two separate `APPIUM_HOME` directories being created and
populated with the corresponding version of the XCUITest driver. You can then use the same
environment variables to direct Appium which version to use on launch:

```bash
APPIUM_HOME=/path/to/home1 appium  # use xcuitest driver 4.11.1
APPIUM_HOME=/path/to/home2 appium  # use the xcuitest driver beta
```

You don't need to set `APPIUM_HOME` if you don't want to! By default, Appium will set `APPIUM_HOME`

> to the directory `.appium` in your user home dir.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the directory `.appium` in your user home directory.
```

> ## NPM DIY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Do-It-Yourself with `npm`
```

Because Appium and Appium drivers are Node.js programs, if you are integrating your Appium scripts

> into your own Node.js project, there is an alternative way to manage drivers and plugins: via NPM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into your own Node.js project, there is an alternative way to manage drivers and plugins: via `npm`, like any other dependency.
```

Basically, whenever you run Appium, if you have not explicitly set `APPIUM_HOME`, it will:

> 1. Try to determine whether it is inside an NPM project by getting the project path from `npm list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Try to determine whether the _current directory_ is inside an `npm` package.
```

1. If so, it will check whether `appium` is a dependency (dev, prod, or peer) in the project's
   `package.json`

> 1. If so, Appium will ignore `APPIUM_HOME` entirely, and load drivers and plugins defined in that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If so, _unless you have specified `APPIUM_HOME` in your environment_, Appium will ignore load drivers and plugins defined in that
```

   `package.json` file instead.

> This means you are freely able to add Appium drivers and plugins as regular NPM dependencies. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means you are freely able to add Appium drivers and plugins as regular package dependencies or dev dependencies. For
```

> example, if your project has a `package.json` including the following portion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, if your project has a `package.json` which includes the following:
```

```json

> {
>     "devDependencies": {
>         "appium": "^2.0.0",
>         "appium-xcuitest-driver": "^4.11.1"
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "appium": "^2.0.0",
    "appium-xcuitest-driver": "^4.11.1"
  }
}
```

```

Then, if you run `npx appium` inside your project, Appium will detect that it is a dependency of
the project, and will load the XCUITest driver which is also listed as a dev dependency for the
project.

> Again, this strategy is *only* recommended if you are already using Node/NPM for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This strategy is *only* recommended if you are already using `npm` for your project.
```
